So I'm just going to switch, I'm just going to say that I'm Marsha Armani and I'm here
with the Theobald Sisters, is that correct in saying that?
No the Kibbe Sisters because I'm Theobald, I be as James, she married Bryn James.
I go second marriage and James is the second one.
Okay.
They would know us as the Kibbe Sisters wouldn't they?
Oh, we're by all accounts with the, well according to my son and one thing and another and Terry
and one thing and another, I think we must be the oldest people in the village.
That's what they keep saying.
We can't be far out can we?
So Ivy, so you're 94 Ivy, yeah, and what's your Christian name again?
Iris.
So Ivy, Iris, how lovely, what's your date of birth?
I'll be 85 now in May.
Oh in May, okay.
85 or 86?
Yeah.
86.
Yeah, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, yeah 86.
And you had, they were five daughters?
Yeah.
So there is, so Ivy and Iris and then we've got Olive.
May.
And Rose.
I'm the middle one myself.
You're the middle one.
I'm the middle one.
Yeah.
And the one that was different altogether in any case.
They always said I was the milkman or the baker or the baker or somebody because I always
had golden blonde curly hair where these all had bouncy hair with a fringe.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah, with a fringe.
One day.
Yeah.
That I was always different.
That I'd always be clean and tidy for a start.
Yeah.
Where somebody else like my other sister May, she would get a frock dirty in a day as the
saying is when mine could be there all the week and still be clean.
She was too fussy.
Too fussy.
Always.
And I always kept my tidy.
I always did my hair and always made it.
You're hearing your bloody nails when I was a kid this is now because she's that much
older than me you know.
She used to sit there in the house with her hands like this.
Her hair wouldn't be a speckled place and her hands would be like that with all her
painted nails.
So was your mother like that?
Well, reasonably.
Well, ma'am, yes.
Yes.
I think I follow ma'am a lot for the simple reason.
As I said, although she had five children, she was still, you know, kept herself.
Yes, and young.
Yeah.
She would go to Cardiff and have her perms where they used to hang them up in the air.
That was my first perm.
That was my first perm when I went and I'd mind it was hanging up in the air like this
on things.
Then she had, then ma'am had water waves.
We were talking about this earlier in the week, weren't we?
And then water waves.
What's water waves?
But ma'am was always dressed nice once she had beautiful skin.
Did she?
Oh, beautiful.
She never had a wrinkle.
Water waves is that they press.
She was 98 when she died.
She never had a wrinkle.
You press the waves in.
Beautiful skin.
You know, you press the waves in and put clippers in it.
Oh, yeah.
But she always kept herself really, you know, quite good.
Tidy mamma, didn't she?
Yeah.
Where was she?
What was her name?
Fanny.
Fanny?
Hi.
Oh, probably an old fashioned name.
Oh my goodness.
Where was she from?
Caldecott.
She was in Caldecott.
Old Caldecott family, yes.
I was the first one born down here.
Really?
The two oldest ones was at Subrook.
Subrook, wasn't it?
Yeah.
Is that because your father was working at Subrook?
Well, not working, but living.
My dad, my granddad, they lived in Worcester.
But he'd come down to work on the tunnel.
Oh.
See, and then they said that there's a place in Subrook.
Okay.
And well, it was, what was it?
There was Grandad Kibbie, Granny Kibbie, but she left after, didn't she?
She left him.
And then there was Auntie Rosa, Uncle Vic, and then mam and dad, and then mam's, Rose
and me, all in one little cottage, you know.
Really?
Well, they did years ago.
They had nowhere to live, didn't they?
Yes, I can remember.
They all had to live together.
When I went up there, I went up there for my tenth birthday.
I can't remember.
I went up there for my tenth birthday.
I don't know how I would have come to go up there for my tenth birthday on my own.
But I can always remember coming out of them houses and crossing the road to the style
when the pumping works was going boo.
I was like, yeah.
Boo.
Yeah.
But I can always remember why I went up there on my own.
I'll never know.
You went up to Vic's, I suppose.
I know, but why me?
Well, she came to Kibbie.
And I know it was my tenth birthday.
I remember it was my tenth birthday.
So there's that row of houses with a track in the middle at Subbrooke.
Is that where you...
No, Subbrooke, I've got just one row of houses.
Yeah.
I think there's a lot of new houses up there now that we haven't been up there for years.
I think there's a lot of new houses.
But they lived...the old cottages where they lived, where...
Oh, yeah.
My dad lived as a young boy.
They're all still there, aren't they?
Oh, they're all still there with everybody.
You've had a bit done to them, you know, one thing or another.
Was the pumping station noisy then?
Oh, yes.
Yes.
Bump, bump, bump, bump.
But of course, it's like any other noise.
It's like when you hear the...
Not about the trains going along here.
When you first come here, you hear the trains.
After a while, you don't hear them.
No.
You don't hear them.
So when did you move to Rocket then?
Sorry, the house in Subbrooke.
Where did everyone sleep?
Pardon?
Where did everyone sleep in Subbrooke?
Don't know.
I don't know.
No.
But that's how they lived years ago.
You got married and then you lived with your mother and father, didn't you?
Yeah.
Well, Mam got married to Dad and they had nowhere to live,
so they had to live with their father, which was my grandchild,
because Vic was already there and then he married Rosa
and they were all there together.
But Rose and Vic had two children after,
but Mam had already moved to Rocket then before they had them.
Mam was married before Vic and Rosa.
So where did your parents marry, do you know?
In Portscrew.
Portscrew.
Portscrew it.
And you know it snowed?
April 3rd.
4th of April.
Yeah.
Easter Monday.
4th of April and it snowed.
It snowed.
Nobody could go up there because we had that much snow by all account.
Yeah.
Not as we know.
My dad told me since.
Yeah, I know what Mamma said.
Yeah.
That I know there was one old photograph somewhere,
but don't ask me where,
was with a bike outside the church where, you know,
one of Mam's friends was.
She must have got there on her bike or something
and went into Portscrew at church.
But that was quite unusual.
And they thought it had snow, quite a bit of snow in there.
But I don't remember it.
They didn't know if they could get to the church.
Mam didn't know if she was going to be able to get that to Portscrew
it to the church because of the snow.
Yeah.
Nice little place at Portscrew at church.
I've never been to Portscrew at church actually.
Oh, nice.
Nice little.
Church, isn't it?
Yeah.
So when.
I haven't been inside mine.
You won't get a word in it.
It's okay.
When did your, where was your father from then?
Was he from Worcester?
Worcester.
So and your mother's family were from.
Caldecott.
From Caldecott.
She was a Caldecott girl.
Yeah.
So why did they move to Roggett?
Why did your parents move to Roggett?
Oh, well it was all to do with the railway, wasn't it?
Well, yeah, because they were all living in that house in Portscrew
together a lot, see.
So when they put the railway houses up here, well then Mam and Dad was offered one.
Because he worked on the railway?
Oh, yes.
Dad worked all his life.
All his life on the railway.
He was an engine driver.
Yeah.
He was a driver.
Used to drive the old steam trains.
He was a steam engine driver.
Oh, yes.
Right from a boy.
From about one fourteen, wasn't it?
Yeah.
He was always on the railway.
We was only talking about this.
When we, no, last week, weren't we?
Yeah.
Obviously you or Steve I was talking to about it.
No, it must have been you, wasn't it?
We were, because we didn't know what this lady was going to ask us.
About the different times, as I said, when Dad used to go double home.
Double home.
And when they went double home they just went and had a stay a night somewhere.
And then come back.
And another little thing they done was if they were at home and they wanted emergency
driver or one thing or another they sent what they called a call boy out.
Like Terry?
No.
A call boy just purposely to come and knock at Mum's door to tell her Dad to go out to
work as they needed him.
That was a call boy?
Yeah, call boy.
What they called a call boy.
A call boy.
They knock on the door.
Yeah.
And that could be any time of day or night.
Oh, any time of night.
Any time of night.
Yeah.
But, um.
What was your Dad's name?
George.
George?
George could be.
So he joined the railway straight from school?
School, yeah.
Rightly retired before the, what do they call it now?
Diesel.
The diesel, that's right.
He didn't bother when they turned over the diesel.
What was that firm that took over the railways?
Beecham's?
Was it Beecham's?
Oh, Beecham's.
Dr. Beecham.
Ah, that's right.
He closed all the railways up.
No, he come up to old age pension time and that.
So he went to school in Sudbrook, did he?
No, we all, all in Brogget.
Where did your Dad go to school?
Oh, Sudbrook.
No, Sudbrook I explained, did he?
So do you know how he got into the railway?
Do you know how that happened?
Well, no, I suppose that's work.
There was, it was only, that seemed to be the only work around here.
There weren't many houses, look.
No.
And I'm going to say, where we're sitting now, this was a field.
That's when we first moved to Brogget, yeah.
And we used to have, that's why I've got so many brambles coming up in my garden,
that old gutsy Gleed had a white horse, there's somebody's cat out there,
had a white horse and he used to keep them in this field.
Old gutsy Gleed, that's what we used to call him, didn't we?
Because he used to go around with vegetables and one thing and another and all.
And I'll say on there he's gutsy Gleed.
What, selling them?
Ah, selling them.
And this was all fields all the way down to the seawall?
Oh, good, this was all fields, all fields everywhere.
There weren't many houses here when we came here.
Where I'm living now on the main roads, when I was a kid, that was tennis courts, wasn't it?
I was going to say.
There was nothing there at all.
Really?
When we'd go up into Mam's bedroom, which had a bay window,
there was all fields in at the back of there and there was a tennis court,
we used to watch them playing tennis.
And then the other fields and all.
So it really felt like you were in the countryside here.
Well, we was in the country, we couldn't be anymore in the country, from what we was.
Could we?
No, we used to watch them playing tennis.
I remember they used to go up to play tennis as well then, didn't they?
Do you remember moving here then?
Me? No, I was born here.
We were born here, yes.
This was me and Ivy that was born in Suffolk.
Yes, no, I was born here.
I was born, well, not here, on the main road.
At home? Were you born at home, both of you?
Yes.
Oh, yeah, yeah, no one recalling in those days, was there?
No maternity hospital said.
No, that's another thing we were talking about.
We were always going down memory lane because we were at the age when we'd go down memory lane.
You know what I mean?
And we were saying, when we were going to school,
that we played Wippentop and Marbles and hooplats all down the main road where you would see the cars going and going and going and going.
Now, we used to go down there, we used to play Marbles going to school.
We'd never see a car, would we?
No cars?
No, no cars.
And the market then used to be there and then you'd have a load of cows come up.
Oh, the market near the Rocket Hotel?
The market was right by the side of the school.
Yeah, the market was...
By the Rocket?
With the little bungalows.
You know, the turning down to the church.
Yeah, yeah.
Where them bungalows are, that was the market.
That was the market.
And you remember that?
Oh, I remember going over the market, going head over heels over the baths.
Yes, and the kids.
Yeah.
You could see it all, but there was a school, there was a little class, a little road.
And then we'd go up on the baths and have a look at the cows being weighed and you name it.
Did you?
And then they used to, the ones that were left that were sold, the cows and one thing or another,
they were left down... where did Lisa live?
Station Road?
Yeah.
There was like pens there.
And they used to leave the cows in there and they used to be picked up by the train.
Really?
Yeah.
Who was looking after them?
Well, everybody fend for theirself, didn't they?
I suppose somebody must have fed them, but they waited until a proper train came to pick
them up and off they went.
The cows used to come up there then, didn't they, go on the train to go through the tunnel?
The cows?
The cows, yes, go through the tunnel.
The cars?
Cars, yes, go through the tunnel.
They used to put them all on the tracks and then they used to take them through the tunnel.
What, you mean for people driving cars?
Yeah.
Not cars to be sold.
No, no, people going on holidays and all that.
Really?
Because otherwise they had to go all up clusters and round seats.
At the station.
They had to go through the tunnel.
That's right, at the station.
Yeah.
You could stand there and watch them chaining your car onto the thing and then you'd get
on the train and your car would come...
Coming behind you on the tracks?
Were they just open trailers then?
The cars were?
Yeah.
The cars were on open trailers.
Yeah, like open, you know, just put them on and chained them on the lot of the things.
Really?
So did the drivers sit in the car or did they go...
No, they went in the car in the train.
Oh, I didn't know that.
As far as I remember, they went in the train.
Yeah, I remember the cars going.
So as children, you would go down and watch that walk across the fields?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Crikey, yeah.
But another thing, we used to always have a turntable here to turn the engines around.
Yeah.
Which they have only got in...
I don't know, what have they ever got?
Anymore now, have they, wonder?
Right.
Have they got any anywhere now?
Nothing down there now, nothing.
No, I know not down there, but any part of the country, I mean.
I don't know.
Probably at one of these steam engine enthusiastic places.
They must have something to turn something.
Yeah.
But there, we'd have the steam engines turning around.
Go up on?
Go up on.
They'd go along where I'd lived over in Woodland View.
There was a railway line from down the bottom of there, right along, under an archway, and
get down to the moors then, wouldn't they?
Down to the moors.
And that line used to go up to Ifton Quarry.
Yeah.
Ifton Quarry was in full swing then, you know, and Big Pool there, one there, and people,
you know, used to wave their lorries, go in there and wave their lorries.
I was only thinking the other day, the girl, Earl, used to work in the office there, didn't
she?
Yeah.
What was her surname?
Hey, you know we were trying to think of somebody's name the other day?
Yeah, Tyler.
No.
Oh, when's one of them?
No, well, no, it's gone again, tell them, getting bloody old candy away.
I've really forgotten them.
Do you know when you're, so they built houses especially for the rail men here today?
Yeah, railway houses.
Is that because the Seven Junction was becoming, you know, a busy place?
It was the main, yeah, there was all the big yards there.
Yeah.
But Terry worked there when he left school, he was a runner doing all the, just to worry
about him, because he'd have to, as the trains come, trucks come running down, Terry had
to unhook them with a pole, you know, and I was always worrying in case he slipped and
went under because the trucks were moving.
He said it was a dangerous job.
You know, yes.
And he said there was one man here who'd lost both his legs, somebody he used to work
with.
Oh, yes, yeah.
Yeah.
So it was quite a dangerous place.
Yeah, it was a very dangerous place.
Did you?
And it was massive, wasn't it?
And that was all we got.
Now, at one time we had a restaurant and all along that station, didn't we?
Oh, yes, the train.
As I said, I'd been looking for the piece of paper, because I knew I had a piece of
paper, the full size of the Argus, gone brown naturally through age, and there's the rocket
station, all walking up where you could walk up, go along and then come down.
Really?
And then there was another booking office where in the winter you had a nice fire in
there that you could go and sit in there and open fire.
A waiting room?
Oh, yes, a coal fire, yeah.
And well, we...
There was a waiting room?
Oh, that's right, and then there was the...
That's right, over the other side there was this little tea place.
What was their names, them two ginger ladies?
There was another singer, we seem to have forgotten what their names are.
They lived by the Bake House, didn't they?
Yeah.
What the hell was their names?
I can't remember, no.
The proper...
Two sisters, all maids, they was something.
Two old maids sisters.
Used to run the restaurant.
And they used to know you could get the odd bun and a cup of tea and one thing and another.
Nowhere to go and sit inside.
Oh, wasn't there?
Just a, you know, just an ordinary little shed place.
So was it quite an old fashioned station then, Rugget?
Yeah.
It was a busy station, because of the cars going over and all that, you know.
The cattle coming in.
It was a very busy station.
Yes, when you had the Queen stop in your wands.
Now I've heard stories about the Queen stop in your wands.
Oh, she stopped in the sidings at Butchkiewicz.
That was when she stopped in the sidings.
But do you remember when they, Maddie, dolled all the toilets up in the station thinking
just in case she got a cut shot.
But then just in case, you know, they, you know, they just sweep the floors when everybody's
coming.
Well, they'd done all the same to the toilet and all, just in case.
Just in case her ladyship wanted, as if she would mind, as if she wouldn't have one on
her, on the train, on the Royal Train, you know.
She used to sleep overnight, didn't she, on the sidings.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Butchkiewicz, it was well known, wasn't it?
Well known that was, a stopping place.
Really?
Well, to us local people, not to strangers.
No.
Because it was down the siding.
Yeah.
And they always, when they were coming from London or anywhere and going down the car,
they'd from front to down, they'd back in there in Portskiewicz for the night.
And then, and that's when we were kids, going over to the bridge down over here, because
the train wouldn't be picking up much speed and they would be coming under the bridge,
the Royal Train, you know.
Really?
Yeah.
Because kids used to be down there, you know, like kids are.
Did you ever see anyone?
Not really.
On the train?
I don't remember seeing anybody.
Because by the time they were there, they were inside, I expect they might be having
their breakfast or anything.
But nobody would go up to the sidings and knock on the door and things like that.
But of course, there wasn't all this terrorists and nothing like that.
Everything, the railway men knew that was there.
We knew they were there, if you know what I mean.
Of course, they had their guards around, they naturally were there.
But it wasn't, well, no, it wasn't all on bloody telly.
They're staying at Portskiewicz for the weekend.
There was no telly then.
No, that's what I said, there was nothing.
We didn't have no telly when we were kids.
They just backed up there quietly and backed down and went on to wherever they were going.
So you remember that as children that they used to?
Yes.
Oh, God, oh.
Yeah, I remember him backing up into Portskiewicz, the Queen.
Of course, I mean, it was steam then and trains were slow.
So they had to stop you overnight from London because it took them all day to get down here.
Yeah.
So your father was a steam engine driver.
So did he ever talk much about his work?
Was he away a lot or would he be away a lot?
Well, he never talked, I think it's because he had five girls, if you know what.
If he had boys, he might have been a little different.
But he had just had girls and that.
There's another thing I remember, can you remember that?
When you worked on the railway, you had cheap coal a lot.
Okay.
You had fires and all that.
But you had to put your name down when you wanted a ton of coal.
Yeah.
And it doesn't matter, he could be away on Double Home, he could be anywhere.
And this ton of coal would come and be dumped out on the road.
I'd like to see it dumped out today.
I'd go down with the god.
Dumped on the road.
So that means to say...
Oh gosh.
You had to shovel it on the coal looms.
And us kids used to have to get this coal and put it in the coal looms in buckets and one thing and another off the road.
Really?
Yeah.
Other than that, well, we had to.
We couldn't stay on the road.
So where was the cottage? Where was it?
Was it by the station?
Well, nowhere else.
Yeah.
Where we lived.
Oh no, just on the corner of the road.
On the main road.
Was it opposite the Roggett there?
There's some railway cottages along there, isn't there?
Oh no, we didn't do...
No, no, no. Just up here, no.
The cottage you were thinking of, what Terry told you, is that's where I lived.
Of course.
Okay, I'm getting confused now.
When we lived as kids, it was on the main road.
Ah, yeah.
South Grover's coal then, wasn't it?
Yeah.
When we were married, first married, and Terry was a baby, that's where we lived in the little cottage.
So would many of your friends, when you were young, would many of them have been children of railway workers?
Well, I've spent a lot of them, Lord.
A lot of them, Lord.
Yeah, a lot of them, because...
But they're only thinking of Edna.
Other than the railway houses, there was only Ifton Road, wasn't there?
Yes, there were a lot of many.
And that was called Ifton then, not Roggett. That was Ifton on its own.
That main road going up there to the club.
Yeah.
And then all it was, it was railway houses, yeah.
Really?
Until they built after you and your council and...
Oh, very few houses. All this.
I can... Dad used to, when we lived up on the main road there, we had a fairy cycle.
I don't suppose the kids have ever seen one, have they?
No, what's that?
A fairy cycle?
No.
Well, it's like a miniature bike, wasn't it?
About that high, wasn't it?
And Dad used to put us on to learn to ride.
We'd sit on it, and then he'd give us a push, because there was no traffic about nothing.
And we'd go like hell down that road, and then up over the bloody pavement down there into the field,
and let me fall ass off her head, but we...
But that's the way you learn to drive, to bloody ride your bike.
You never see a fairy cycle now, do you?
No.
It's like a miniature... you know, you get a fattened, you know, the fath-in bike and all that.
Yeah, I just do like that one minute.
This was a miniature bike.
Well, I think, with a big front wheel, and then goes down to a little one at the back.
That's a penny fath-in, that is.
That's a penny fath-in bike.
No, no, this was just an ordinary, like, two wheels on the bike, and he used to put us on to learn to ride.
And he used to put us on there.
I can remember having a little three-wheeler.
I can remember having my little three-wheeler.
Yeah.
I had to.
Yes, because as I said, I was eight years, and eight years is quite a lot.
There's a big difference, isn't there?
Yeah, it is.
You know, not many kids.
Yeah.
So what was it like growing up here then?
It was rural, there wasn't much traffic.
So you describe it as the moors.
Some people call it the levels, don't they?
Yes.
But what was special about this place as children?
What was it like to grow up here?
Oh, ten times better than what it is today, I can tell you that for a start.
Yes.
Oh my God.
We used to spend most of our time, when we were young, we'd be down the moors, messing around.
In the water, and a couple of jam sandwich, and then the holidays, we'd be down there all day.
Yeah.
At the woods, then we'd be open, because we had access to all the woods, and one thing or another.
We'd go up there with a gang, perhaps three or four, five, six, seven, it was all according to who you were friends with at the time.
And make house in the woods, and as you said, take a bit of bread and jam up with our own, Bob's your uncle.
You'd be out all day.
You made your own fun.
Yeah, we'd go up there all day.
Following the owens, that's right up there with the fox and owens when they were going.
Following the hounds?
Hounds, the fox and owens, and making on the red coats and all that, yeah.
Oh, I used to see them from my bedroom window on the thing, I could.
Really?
Yes, we made our own.
The gypsies used to come, didn't they?
Eh?
The gypsies used to come up the minute.
Oh, the gypsies, aye, the gypsies.
Did they?
With their brown and white horses and their big old fashioned caravans.
Caravans, yeah, they used to be up the minute lane, didn't they?
Up the minute lane, yeah.
And what were they doing up there?
Well, making pegs and then they'd come round the village.
Round the village, really?
Yeah, and bits of lace and little posies, didn't they?
Yeah.
Come round the door selling them.
Or cut the flowers out of the woods and one thing and another.
And they were harmless enough.
Yeah.
And they were lovely, one day you could go up there and they'd talk to you and yeah,
nothing like today.
Oh, we used to find, which you can't do today, you know, because, but we used, well we always
have plenty to do, we never.
As soon as we come in from school.
I mean, today, they've got to spend money, haven't they, today?
They've got to be spending money.
They don't do anything else other than spending money or flickering their fingers, do they?
Yeah.
As soon as we come in from school, we'd go straight out, wouldn't we, and play marbles
and we'd be talking.
I was going to say, but you know, just playing.
You might not believe it, but we only, where Iris was saying, where she was in that little
house on the side by the school, the school wasn't all that big.
But all of us was taught there from infants until we left at 14.
Yeah.
And now going up there to.
Only four classrooms.
Right, and they'd all be in the same, you know.
You'd all know each other very well, wouldn't you?
Yes, we were all in the college.
The boys used to have carpentry, not carpentry, out in the garden.
They used to, a bit of, what do they call that then, the gardening, I'd say.
And we used to do sewing or knitting or something, wasn't it?
But everything was all combined, if you know what I mean.
Yeah.
But opposite the school.
We didn't have no separate teacher for, the one teacher taught us all day, whatever it was.
Yes, there's a photo in that, in that cardigan book I got in there.
Did you ever see the cardigan book?
No, no.
I got several books with all this in them.
I'll show you, I got a photo of my school's thing.
Really?
And I'm in the cardigan book and.
When the evacuees came.
Yes.
There were so many who couldn't, couldn't got to school.
Yeah.
So we used, one week we went in the morning and the evacuees went in the afternoon, and
then the following week, and vice versa.
Really?
Yeah.
Where did these evacuees come from, do you know?
All from London and all that, yeah.
We had loads of evacuees here.
And where were they staying?
Where were they staying?
Where were they living?
All in people's houses.
Yeah.
But we couldn't have them because we had too many, you know, three bedrooms and it was
five of us, you know.
So what was it like as a child receiving all these people into your community?
What was that like?
Yeah, they were all right.
We got on all right with them.
Yeah.
Did you play with them?
So did you ever play on the reams or anything like that?
On the reams, on the waterways?
Were they part of your playground and?
What, down the moors?
Yeah.
You mean, oh yeah, we spent half our life down the moors.
What did you do down there?
I don't know, we just used to sit around talking and...
Well, looking for...
I don't know, we'd stay down the moor all day.
We were looking for crabs and you name it, we were looking for it.
Yes.
Well, that was along the waterways.
Did you ever go fishing or swimming there?
No, it was a bit too mucky for that.
Yeah.
Muck, one net.
But...
All about, you know, on, beyond the sea wall, the estuary, did you ever go swimming there
or walking out after the tide?
None of us could swim.
No.
We used to go out, well, we never, but my grandchild...
Yeah.
Used to go out the bedwinds fishing.
Oh really?
Oh, I mean, you used to go out getting cockles.
You had to be very careful because it was like a patch of sand right out in the water.
Yeah.
But when the tide came in, it came in quickly and it came round this way at the same time.
Oh.
And you'd get trapped on the bedwinds.
Yeah.
You had to know the tide.
And I walked back before it came.
And he knew the tide?
He used to go out there fishing.
I used to help him make his nets.
Really?
Yeah.
Yeah, you'd stab them up on the...
This is where you are now.
Yes, yeah.
I was on the...
Oh my goodness.
On 9th Street there.
Crossways, I think it's a crossway.
That was a new road years ago.
This was a new road years ago.
Where did you help make the nets then?
Where did you do that?
My granda and granda used to do that.
Oh, yeah.
Is it?
Yeah.
I can't see very well.
Let's have a look.
But there's our class and there's me.
Oh.
I got none there.
Look because they...
And that's old boss Baker, you're who was there.
Yeah.
That I know.
That's his daughter.
They've got all their names here.
That's his mother.
That is her.
Yeah.
And that's me.
That's my grandma.
That's me.
And that's my granda.
That's my grandma.
And that's the two.
That's her grandma.
And that's my grandma.
They've got all their names here.
How lovely.
But all these, I remember all of them.
Oh, and this was at Rocket School.
1937, my goodness.
I wonder how many of these are still around.
How many stayed in the area?
Oh, more or less died, you mean.
You know, a lot of them are dead, isn't it?
A lot of them that I went to school with, gone.
Yeah.
Yeah, so the...
No, I had that piece of argus and do you think I could find it?
Not again, I think.
What did you use to make the nets?
Well, you stuck it on a little oaky, because it was a big old fashioned thing you had to cook in the oven.
You know, with no gas stove then.
You cook your oven big black.
You put the stove lid on there.
And then it was...
How can I describe it?
It was like a wooden thing like that.
Yeah.
And they had a piece coming up the middle with all this stuff twirled around.
And then we had to hook it in, hook it in like that, pull it out, hook it back and make the net.
So did you have... was it like a big wooden needle you had to do that?
Yeah, it was like a...
Series of knots?
It was wood, I know it was wood.
And it was sort of like that with the thing up the middle.
Oh.
Yeah, I used to set it up in Granshaw and make his nets.
Did you?
There's a...
That's lovely.
...pure of the pictures in there of Roggett, the little bit that they put in there for Roggett.
I can't see that very well.
Terry took me up to the church and this is the mission hall.
Is the mission hall still there?
Because I mean this is just so different, even now, looking at Sodbrooke Bear, I mean it's so developed, hasn't it?
Yes.
Over the last 50, 60 years.
I haven't been up to Sodbrooke for ages.
Goodness me.
Oh, there's the Roggett Hotel there.
Yes, that was a good old thing.
They used to have dances and all in there in the Roggett Hotel.
Did you?
Back in our school...
Mum and Dad used to go dancing in the Roggett, didn't they?
I was only seeing a girl on the thing that...
Oh yes, they used to have dances and all sorts of things.
Yeah.
And another thing I remember up going up to the station with what they called the tinat.
Steve remembers that.
Your red tinat.
And your red tinat, which the footballers used to change in there.
And I can always remember that for how many railway houses and railwaymen and all that come there,
we used to have our Christmas party there.
And I can always remember there was five of us girls and we all had presents like they usually did.
And Olive had a famyad.
Well, I can't remember what I had, but I know Olive, when she opened hers, she had a famyad.
And we were all...
Just out of gives you know what I mean.
So did you...
Did you...
Terry was saying that he used to go hunting for eggs.
Your father used to tell Terry to go out and get eggs on the moors to make omelettes with or something like that.
Did you ever go getting eggs or...?
No, I don't remember that.
No?
No.
So did the boys and girls play together or did you all play separately?
Yes.
Well, I don't think...
The boys used to get outside Miss White's, didn't they?
The shop.
Well, the one boy, the boy Watkins, took Olive up the woods, he went with a gang of them, eh?
And he cut all Olive's hair off.
She came home with no hair.
Cut her hair all off.
Can you remember that?
No, I remember it being said, but I don't remember it.
Yeah, that was just that much older.
Your mother must have been furious.
When I was little, you know, when I was small, of course Rosie had left school and was working, because Rosie was 11 years older than me.
Of course, yeah.
You know.
Yeah, you're just the baby.
Yeah, I remember Tratty Watkins, we used to call him, didn't we?
He lived on top of the hill.
As I said, when I think of it...
She had no hair.
The war made hell of a difference in our family.
The war?
I know we had no boys.
Yeah.
Oh, it made hell of a difference, because I was too old, Rose and May, which could have been about 17 at the time, they were sent up to Coventry to work in the factories.
Were they really?
Ammunition factories, yeah.
Ammunition factories, but I couldn't go because I was 14 in the August, as I think it's the war started or something in September.
Oh, yeah.
September the 3rd or something, but I couldn't go.
But after that, I had to go all sorts of jobs.
It was no picking and shoving and buying and getting money for nothing and more, a lot of days.
You had to, what job the labour exchange gave you, you had to go and do it.
Do it.
So what did you have to do?
Well, I had two or three jobs.
I had, one of them I know, I went to Newport and on the bus and sorting nails out.
No, no, what do you think that, sorting nails.
Wow.
We were sat on benches and having piles of nails and we'd go like this and pick up the good ones and the bad ones.
There's no robots then, there's no way with the robots.
Yeah.
Picking it all out.
Then we went, then I went to Portscrew and pulling nails out of wood.
That's right, I may have done that, didn't she?
We had a lot of old wood would come in so they could reuse it.
Yeah.
So we worked on that.
Then we went down the...
Didn't you work at the Boxworks?
Eh?
In Portscrew it.
Boxworks?
No, not the Boxworks.
Then the tinworks, I went down in the printing works.
Oh, I worked there.
And we'd done sorts of printing things there and that's when they changed over then to they were making plastic
instead of doing sheets of things for making tins for everything.
And I remember pinning salts because they always had to go through the machine two or three times
because there were two or three times lots of printing.
I worked in the tinworks.
Then there was these black things they were, they used to put them over the car head vents.
Oh, yes.
Black.
Yeah.
They'd have them down in the black and then they'd be hung up when they'd go through the ovens.
But they would be to take the glare if you were driving a car.
You wouldn't...
And was that in Newport?
No, we were in Lugley.
Caldecott.
Yeah.
In Caldecott.
That's fascinating.
Down the pill.
Yeah.
Little black things there.
And used to put on the headlights they used to to stop the glare.
Yeah, so they couldn't see from above.
And another thing we used to watch a lot from our house and then we would watch the incendiary bombs
going over Dinham.
Yeah.
During the war.
Where's Dinham?
Just up by here in Corwent.
Corwent.
Where you saw the bombs.
The training, Corwent training area that is now.
Yeah.
We used to call it Dinham then.
Oh, really?
My son worked there for 20 years, my other son.
Why is it Corwent?
I used to, I could see from my bedroom window you could see all the lights.
Yeah, you could see them all from the window.
Well, they were, the lights were looking for planes.
Look, the planes, that's right, the planes would, they would, well, as you said.
Drop the incendiary bombs, didn't they?
And then the fires would start.
Why were they dropping bombs there?
Because they used to stock all the little bombs and all that.
Shells.
Everything else.
Really?
It was a depot.
It was like a depot, like they got no, like Tesco's got a depot like there.
Well, that was a depot because it was underground as well.
That, for all the animation and different things.
So you used to watch that from your window?
My bedroom window, you could see all that.
No, when we was kids from the house.
Really?
From the bedroom window, yeah.
Used to watch it.
Used to see all that.
Yeah.
Oh, was it, I mean, were you scared?
I mean, what did you think?
Well, we never took no, no, I can always remember getting under the table.
Our mum used to put us under the table.
I was seven when the war started.
Wow.
Yeah.
Didn't she?
Mum used to put us under the, in the pantry, wasn't it?
When the siren went, we used to have to go in the pantry, yeah, and mum put a thing on the floor, didn't she?
It was all like in the pantry.
Yes, because there was a big concrete slab there.
They never had fridges in them days.
No.
There was a slab on the concrete slab.
The concrete slab, yeah.
Did you have an air raid shelter in the garden?
No.
No, we never had a road.
No, we never.
Do you know, and I remember us when we were, we just started work, as I said at the beginning of the war, it's got a lot to say for the beginning of the war.
That we were home and the planes come over and a bomb dropped at Roggett Poole, didn't it?
Yeah.
And dad was in bed at the time, he must have been working nights, and you couldn't see Roggett Poole.
This is the, you're Roggett Poole down here, you can't see it because it was, you know.
And we went up and said, dad, get up, dad, get up, there's dropping bombs.
And he never got up, did he?
And it was just for one bomb?
One, no, no.
We've got one of the minutes.
We had one boy killed over where you've just seen a pub, didn't you?
Yeah, I was at the pub, yeah, boy pretty.
He lived in the house on a couple of little bungalows that was on there, and he come out to the gate to watch what was going on, kid-like, and he got killed.
He was, it was shrapnel, wasn't he?
And, yeah.
Did you know him?
Yeah.
It was lucky that they hadn't turned out of the pub at the time, so they were in the pub, you know.
And another one, that one.
One dropped at the top of the minute.
The minute's late, and that was dad won it, but a crater, a huge big one.
He used to go up there and see the crater when he was a kid.
It went on for years and years, everybody would go up and have a look at this great big hole in the field, wouldn't they?
No, we had over a few, because that's what they were aiming for, the tunnel, look, see?
See, that's what they were aiming for, the tunnel.
Yeah.
Because everything was going through the tunnel, look, everything, ammunition, you name it, everything was going through the tunnel.
Presumably you could see across the estuary as well in Bristol what was going on there, could you, the bombing?
Well, not so much, really. Tell you, we've seen the barrage balloons, they had barrage balloons to stop them coming up through the water down there.
You could see them.
Really?
Why?
Big barrage balloons up in the sky.
Barrage balloons, that's to stop the planes coming down low, down the water.
Did you have any guns on the sea front, on the sea wall?
No.
Anything down there?
We still have today, we still today, still got the firing range, we still got the firing range where they go for practice now.
Was that there when you were kids?
Oh, Christ yes, oh, we used to always be down there picking up shells on one thing and another.
It belongs to Quent, training area, which had done them then, but my son used to run it, because he worked at them, so he ran the range.
Oh, gosh.
Yes, he ran it for years.
Did you ever have any American soldiers here?
Oh, yes, all of them.
Yes, one wanted to be my girlfriend.
Give them a ride on your bike and you'd have a tin of fruit and a bit of gun.
Really?
One wanted to be, and the dancehall in Chapstow wanted to be his girlfriend, wanted to be his girlfriend.
With gold teeth he had, oh, why'd we have the anchor?
Was it good fun?
Well, shall we say, we have no, you didn't have transport and nothing there.
Yeah.
You only had to rely on somebody might put a bus on or you'd go by bus and then had to leave early then to catch the last bus back home and things like that, you know, everything was different.
But I was only younger then, they used to park, they were all down Station Road, down to Ragapool or down there, and I used to go down on my little bike.
And yeah, they used to say, can we have a ride?
You'd give them your bike and they went off and had a ride and then you'd have a tin of fruit and some gun.
Really?
Yeah, the man was glad of that tin of fruit.
Yeah, I bet she was.
Yeah, of course I'd be that much older, she wasn't there then, you know, because she was so much older.
So you went to dances with them, that must have been fun.
Yeah, I went dancing every night of the week, I think.
Oh no, I used to like dancing.
Yeah.
And we used to go to, as you said, we had our ordinary soldiers as well, up at Chepstow as well, besides the Yanks.
And no, we used to, they used to have their dances and we used to go there and one thing and another.
Where were the dances?
In the hall, in their place, you know, in their camp.
We used to have a dance hall in Caldecott, didn't we?
I remember we had a YMCA in Caldecott, which we always had dances there and they used to come from there then,
Chepstow and all that, the boys did and the soldiers and one thing and another.
Do you know any local group who ended up in America? Did anyone marry a GI?
Who, what she did, didn't she?
Oh.
Oh, Rosie's friend lived opposite where the dentists is now.
What was her name? And then that little cottage, she went off to America with the Yanks, didn't she?
I don't know.
I don't remember any.
Yeah. Were they, you know, opposite the Wix's fish and chip shop?
The little cottages there, like Queenie, Queenie, Queenie somebody.
She went off with the Yanks.
Did any...
We had our good tang girls during the war, if you're right.
We won one of them. We used to go there and dance for them, yes.
Then come home.
I remember dancing with an officer and he thought he was on for a good thing, he did.
And he died then.
The soldiers then, the privates and all, you used to have excuse me dances and all then.
And they would tap him on the shoulder and of course they'd be dancing and this is how we'd be ready to run it.
So I've come towards, as the newer in the end then, that we was all, we either walked on from Cardiff to Roggett in a gang of us.
Yeah.
Or then we said, so let's say that, oh I, oh I'd be going now soon that we're all going there.
I got dropped like a bloody hot spud for the simple reason that he went and bloody got the bloody village bike.
He did.
The one that was known for it, you know.
Yeah, yeah.
And he went and bloody got her then when he knew he wasn't going to get nothing from her.
You're not mentioning her name.
No.
Yes, yes.
I know you're on the phone.
So there was a lot of fun to be had as well.
Oh yes.
Were the Americans ever billeted with local families?
No, no.
They more or less only come overnight.
They were at Petrie Chap's store or somewhere locally they were.
What about POWs? Were there ever POWs here?
Oh yes, at Le Martin.
Le Martin?
Yeah, we had the camp.
Oh really?
Yes, yes, why?
Did they ever work on local farms?
Oh no, well they weren't in the farms anywhere.
They were just like local people.
They were let out just like, no, I'm really, I don't go to any bar.
Did any hang up, stay after the war?
Not as I know of.
I don't know because I was only young then, you know.
I was, I can't remember that.
We used to, two or three of us girls, well Olive and another friend of mine,
got very friendly with some Germans that we did.
And we used to meet them down at Le Martin, one thing or another,
and have a picnic and all this that and the other.
And then they got moved further up country somewhere.
Oh no, we've had our moments.
What about foods during the war?
Was there ever a black market in food and anything like that?
I don't think so.
I can't remember.
Not in the village, I did think it was in Chepstow or somewhere like that,
or Newport, but in the village, I said it was small,
there wasn't all that many houses and all, you know, we were,
well, you know, it was quiet really, the quiet village.
And your father continued to work on the railway?
Oh, he never stopped until he retired.
He never stopped.
And we had a lot of firemen, oh a lot of that firemen,
they come during the war then, at the beginning of the war.
Some went to Bevan boys, didn't they, down the pits,
had to go down the pits, had to boys at a certain age.
And then others, if they were on the railway, which was needed,
they were all sent up here and they got the lodge.
It was a big hostel down by, well, where Lisa lives now, isn't it?
Eh?
Where Lisa lives now, there was a big hostel.
Oh really?
Yes, and the boys should...
And all the firemen, because of course they had to have a fireman
on the train to shun all the coal in, like do the dirty work.
Yes, some used to live in there and others went into lodgings.
But a lot of our local girls all married them.
Didn't they?
Oh, I went up with a couple of them.
You lived in the village married the hostel boys?
Oh, we never.
Yes, there used to be, that's either lodge, if you had a room,
you could let a lodger, which is payable, you know.
And if not, you had to go in the hostel.
So where did they come from? All over the place?
If they were on the railway?
Yes, they were all sent from the valleys one day,
all out to work on the railway, see.
But if they wanted to work, if you know what I mean,
and they were wanted on the thing, they had to go, it's as simple as that.
We could do with a bit of that, no way.
We could do with a bit of it, no.
Yeah, well I could.
What about, where did you go shopping? Did you ever go shopping?
No, we never went shopping.
We had a little shop on the main road.
And then we had Gutsy Glees around the corner selling a bit of groceries.
And another one was, tell you something, the oil man,
he used to come round with oil, didn't he?
And for the simple reason that we didn't have electric,
we had gas mantles, and with the thing where you pull down, like that.
But of course, so you had to have your oil locked, see.
So this, from Magor I think he was.
Would he be delivered in cartons?
No, no, no, in more of things.
What, ladled out?
Any make do, word things, you know, there weren't all this,
like there is no don't do this, don't do that.
Really?
You've done everything you wanted to do that.
What about milk, was that delivered in churns?
Oh, milk, my sister.
Oh, you haven't got to look back, milk, yes.
When they left school, they used to ask me, farm.
They had a great big dairy, and their own cows.
And me, when she left school, she went out there to work.
What, milking cows?
No, but doing them, filling the bottles with milk.
Really? Yeah.
And then we had to put little cardboard little rings on the top, you know.
And then she put them in front of her bike with a basket, and go round delivering.
Round the village with the basket.
And I used to follow her on my three wheeler.
They were only half pikes, weren't they?
Yeah, so you could have half a pint or a pint.
And as I said, the farm yard where we buzzed at, you had the fresh milk,
as they milked the cows in the morning, six o'clock.
We had our milk, the milk at seven or eight o'clock in the morning.
Fresh milk, none of this pasteurised and all this half a dozen of other.
And as I said, Mae used to go up then at night time, didn't she,
and get these little bottles to take around.
You could have a small one in the morning and a small one at night.
Yeah, they used to do little half pikes, didn't they?
Yeah.
And she used to go on her bike.
And I told you about these ducks, I don't know whether you've seen it,
on the news this week about the three ducks terrorising a village.
No, I don't think it was on the telly this week.
Well, they used to have one, Smithy's farm.
We used to hate to go up there and we'd keep her out because they had three.
Ducks hated her and they were vicious.
Honestly, there were, well, no one used to say that they were better than a dog.
It'd been like a geese, geese would like that.
Geese, yeah, that's what it was.
Oh, geese, was it?
Oh, geese are vicious.
But it was on the telly.
They'd already got geese in the village and they made pets of them.
But these three come from somewhere and they've been terrorising the village.
I don't know whether it was this week.
Terrorising the village and the cats and the dogs and everything else.
So they were open, they would go away.
It made me think then of when Mae was up there and we used to look up the driveway.
Go down there and get the conkers.
On that tree.
On that tree, big conker trees, we used to get the conkers, didn't we?
Yeah.
They were yibbly yibbly yonker.
Old driveway, the driveway of conkers.
Where was that?
Where was the driveway of conkers?
Oh, opposite the garage, the Stonier.
Yeah, opposite the garage.
None of their houses was there then.
That was all fields and just the farm.
If you'd have seen that then, there was only two little cottage bungalows,
workers bungalows, we'll put it that way.
Yeah, there was a little row like that about four cottages going that way.
They worked up the farm, didn't they?
Yeah, Mrs. Ewer and all that.
And then it was co-sheds and lots of...
That's right, that big shed.
But there was a great big...
To go around, wasn't there?
I said, if only anybody...
But we didn't have the cameras and the money then, see, to take these photographs.
Otherwise, if we'd have taken photographs of all these different places that have...
Have only...
No gone.
I mean, see, even that old bridge, it would have just changed now over there.
Yeah, the black bridge.
It was like that, now it's been like that for 80, 90 years.
And now they've put a new one there.
You know that...
You don't see it, so of course you don't think about, well, we didn't have the money.
We didn't have cameras then, I don't think so.
So until you're doing a project like this, because hearing your stories, I can see it in my head,
it'd be lovely to have images, wouldn't it, of these things.
Did you have any...
Were there any locals, you know, myths or legends or stories you used to tell each other?
Or superstitions, local superstitions, things like that?
I can't remember none of that.
Terry was telling me about roping weddings.
Oh yeah, we used to rope the weddings, didn't you?
Oh yeah, where they roped them, yeah.
Yeah, they roped the weddings.
Over the church, yeah.
They used to throw out all their coppers.
Yeah.
That's right, they'd throw out their coppers, that's right.
Oh yes, that old tradition.
Well, that's gone now, that's gone.
Well, Terry used to do that when he was a kid.
Yeah, he said.
So would you have been aware of wildlife as children?
Would you have known what was around the area?
Flowers and birds and insects and animals?
Not really, not really.
Flowers? Because the fields were full of flowers, weren't they?
I think it was because we had so much of them.
Yes.
You know what I mean.
The woods was full of bluebells and then the fields would be full of cove slips.
You know, everything like that.
There was nothing ploughed up then, was there?
No.
And the fields were all just wild flowers, weren't they?
And when we went to Caldecott or a man would take one of us
or her in the pasture or something and go into Caldecott,
it was great edges each side.
And, you know, were there any orchards around?
Were there any orchards?
Well, orchards, yes, but only in small.
You'd go up country more for the big orchards.
They used to have loads of apple trees, didn't they?
Like a big orchard at the Battle of the Red Tree.
Walnut tree.
They had a big walnut tree, didn't they?
They used to go up there and get walnuts, yeah.
Did you?
Yes.
One thing our dad used to do, he wasn't a man to play with us as kids,
if you know what I mean.
But he always used to take us up the woods on a Sunday morning
out of our mam's way while she was getting the dinner.
Really?
And then this is where the walnut tree used to come in.
We used to get the walnuts then and he used to pickle them, didn't he?
And then we came back and Johnny the ice cream man would be somewhere around,
wouldn't he?
Back on the green.
And you know, you might not believe it, but dad used to get a penny worth,
because money was money then, mind,
pennies worth of ice cream in a glass.
And that's how we'd share it between us.
Because there was no money around to throw away out there.
No, not for ice cream.
And what was Johnny, was he?
But he always seemed to be somewhere near when we'd come back down from the woods,
didn't we?
Yeah.
And we'd have a penny worth of ice cream in this.
Share it.
Really?
No, it's a...
So you call this the Moors, this is the Moors.
Do you know, so, places like Redwick and Goldcliff and Nash,
would you know that area much?
Would you ever go there?
No, we never went down there, really.
No.
Mam did, Mam worked down there.
When Mam was 12, she left school and she was working in this big house at Redwick.
Oh, really?
She had to walk there in the morning and walk home at night back to Cloudycar.
And how far was that?
Eight miles, something like that.
I remember her working down there, but I'm not coming with boys.
Yeah, she always told me when she left at 12, she had to walk because there was no transport.
No.
And it was a job, she was sent there to work.
As a maid?
This big house, you know, cleaning, just cleaning.
You don't know the name of the house?
No.
And, yeah, she had to walk.
That was very...
Redwick, did you just...
Redwick, yeah, she had to walk.
Oh, really?
I mean, that's quite a long way, isn't it?
They left school at 12 in Memphis.
Yeah.
Gosh.
Yes, well, I left when I was 14.
They won all these exams and all this that and the other.
Oh, no.
We never had nothing, did we?
What about Lanwerne?
Did that ever affect you, the steelworks?
The what?
The steelworks at Lanwerne, is that...
The only thing that affected us was the noise and the mess and the dust going past our house
because our house was there on the mighty corner of the road
and the lorries streaming by all the time from the quarry.
Oh, for the sale?
Very busy, very busy road with the lorries for Redlam-Werne.
Yeah.
But after that, you know, once it was built, that was the end of it, as the saying is.
So a lot of these houses had gone up.
But then they'd gone up to accommodate workers at Lanwerne.
Oh, no, no, no, no.
No, no, they were put up.
But most of the people came from the valleys to work in Lanwerne and they lived in the houses.
They weren't especially put up for them.
Yeah.
No, these were...
Oh, council houses.
Most of these were railway houses.
Really?
They were.
There must have been so many people who worked on the railway.
Yeah, there must have been.
Yeah, but you know, we all saw a man working on the railway, didn't we?
Well, I was going to say that was their main stay.
Because it was such a big place here, you know, years ago, Seven Tunnel was famous, you know.
Yeah.
It's hard to imagine what it was like.
Yes.
Yeah.
It would have been a good place if you'd have gone in and had a look, and that is over the chapel over here.
Because, tell you what, I run the walls in there, they've got a lot of railway memorabilia.
Yeah, they have, yeah.
In the chapel here, over there.
What, is it open?
No, you don't have to see it.
No, I don't think so.
You don't have to see Coral.
But there's a lot of railway stuff.
Yeah, is it a Methodist chapel?
I'll tell you another thing.
It's a Rocket Non-Political Club.
Dad was one of the first members of the...
When it was a little shack, a couple of men made a little shack together.
Really?
He was one of the...
Dad helped build it.
...memorabilia.
You know, the people that started it.
One of the founders.
Yeah.
I found hundreds of it.
Yes.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
So is that still open today?
Yes.
Oh, yes.
And where is it?
Ken's playing over there next week.
Oh, is he?
Oh, yes.
He practically lives there.
It's all right, Father.
My son lives over there, isn't it?
Where is it?
Over here, did you say?
Yeah.
Over there.
Yeah, Non-Political Club.
So I would go to the end of the road.
Yeah.
And turn right?
Go right up to the end.
Yeah.
And then you see it.
And it's there.
Next to the hairdresser is a room by the corner by an hairdresser.
Really?
I can't believe that.
Yeah, that's...
And the chapel is out onto the main road.
On the way down into...
They're all on the same road.
Yeah, on the same road.
Really?
So does the chapel still have people going there for...
Oh, yes.
It's a very thriving place.
Really?
Yes.
Oh, yes, very thriving.
Perhaps I should try and go and see that.
Yes, I got a lot of...
You'd have to see Coral.
Yeah.
Coral Yates.
Because she does a lot for the chapel.
Does she?
Yeah, she spends a lot of time there, doesn't she?
Yeah, she's a part of the chapel.
So as young women and you wanted to get your hair done or you wanted to go and buy a dress
or a frock, where would you go?
Oh, we'd get our hair done.
You can have your hair done.
Oh, well, that wasn't there.
I mean, it was a bit of a mess.
Yeah.
Oh, we never had a hair done then.
Mam used to cut it.
Mam used to cut a fringe.
Really?
She used to have fringe, but I never...
I always had curly hair.
She had curls.
The way we hair, I had a ribbon in mine.
Really?
Yeah, Mam used to...
Because it was curly, Mam used to put it in ranks overnight.
And then when she got up in the morning, she had all these...
Really?
Oh, yes.
Coral was always hanging down her back.
I was always down there.
She was different to us.
She was a foreigner.
Oh, yeah.
That...
No, that...
No, we never did.
I mean, I was only saying...
We've said, no, when we think that all the dances and that I went to during the war and
one thing and another and that, but we never had no money for...
I don't know what clothes and that we wore because now if you're going anywhere, you're
spending a fortune buying this and the other to go to it, wouldn't you?
Yeah.
And the dance and all this.
But I don't know what we did then.
Yeah, I don't think we did then.
Did your mum make clothes?
Did she have a sewing machine?
No.
Did she?
I don't know what she made.
No, she didn't know.
She had a sewing machine, but she didn't make clothes, did she?
No, I don't remember.
As I can remember, I don't know where we got our clothes from.
I suppose we had hand in me, don't I suppose?
As the five girls we bound, I suppose we bound.
I know I had hand down from all this.
I did.
I know, but perhaps we did on some things.
I know we used to wear them best with the buttons down the front.
Do you remember them?
Oh, was that a Liberty bodice?
A Liberty bodice, yes.
Everyone wore those, didn't they?
We had them.
So when did it start to change?
When did the houses start to go up?
When did it start to develop here?
Well, when the steelworks really, didn't it?
Before, well, where I'm living now, they put up little bungalows, didn't they?
Oh, that's right, yes.
And I don't really know where they went.
I first lived when I got married.
There was a field there, and we used to call it the sandpit.
Yeah.
Because it was just a rough old piece of ground.
I ended up living in one of them.
Really?
When I, you know, one day after I got married, went to living rooms.
Then we went up to Underwood.
And then a man from Rogget, then our councillor, came up there and told me that there's an
house going in, Rogget, he said, if you would like it.
And it turned out to be just the one I liked with a bay window on the end house.
Really?
But that's always, we used to call that the sandpit, because it was rough ground.
Yeah.
The same as Rogget Poole, that was always underwater, wasn't it?
That was water, yeah.
That's why it's called the Poole, Rogget Poole, because it's all underwater.
Now it's all houses.
Really?
Yeah.
I wonder what stopped it getting flooded.
There wasn't many houses, you're a tally one proud.
No, there wasn't, I think, only railway houses until they put them in the bungalows.
That's right, there'd be old stone-built houses.
They put some stone-built houses.
Weren't they?
People, they come from away, I don't know why, didn't they?
They were all from away that come to the bungalows.
And then they knocked them all down the bungalows and then put all them council houses.
Oh really?
Do you ever think about that you're below sea level here?
Do you ever think about that?
No, not really.
Mind?
The tide have come in a field, it have come in a field, I think it was about two and a
half fields or more when we was kids to get down to it.
Dad said he remembers it once when he was a kid, he'd come up the station as far as
the station.
Did he?
Yeah, when dad was a child he told him.
Oh really?
I don't remember it.
But I do know that, not now so much because they put a sea wall there, but before it was
gradually coming over, instead of three fields, it was two fields.
Really?
And there'd be a ream and where we'd have to jump over it to get into the next field
and things like that.
But of course that have stopped now because they sort of put, you know.
The motorway come through, didn't it?
What was that like when the motorway came through?
Do you remember that?
Well I remember all those motorways.
Does it make a big difference?
Well this one here, you mean this motorway here?
Yeah.
No, the one down there, the new one.
Down the, not the old one.
No, I know the one you mean.
The new one down.
I got a photo of one of them.
Because it had to go through.
I got a photo of them as they were building the bridge over the road.
Really?
Because we was going to Newport one day and they put lights there as they were doing it.
They had lights there, you know, stop and go like.
So when they'd stop and I took a photo of it.
But now...
It went right through the rifle range.
They had to build a new rifle range because the motorway went through the old one.
Because Ray was there then working.
Oh yes, this motorway you're at, you know, cut through.
We used to have half a dozen or more lanes quite near that we go up to the woods anywhere
and anywhere, you know.
And there's Mrs. Norm.
The windmill, what they call the windmill lane, where the windmill is up there.
You've seen the windmill, have you?
No.
You mean the very big one?
Aye.
No, it's only a ruin but you know.
Okay.
There's the windmill.
I can see the windmill from here.
You mean it's an old windmill?
It's always been there.
Yeah, it's always been called the windmill.
We don't know how many years it's been there.
A woman there, Mrs. North, used to live up there.
There used to be two little stone bungalows there at the top of this lane.
Yeah.
And she used to have to walk all the way down the lane because she had no water in there
and a tap down the bottom of the lane that got purely down to Rocket Pool on the main road one day.
They used to have to come down and get their bucket of water.
Really?
And when David says that with Turkey Tump they had to go to the well, didn't they?
Oh, there was a well there when we were kids, wasn't there?
They had to get there and get the well.
Where's Turkey Tump?
At the Minnitz.
Really?
So this is when you were children?
Yeah.
Someone said that he, this is somebody on the other side of the usk at Marshfield,
he said he used to drink out of the ream.
Have you ever done that?
They would drink water from a ream.
No, no, no.
No.
Well, I never did.
Have you got any photographs of your childhood or your father or anything like that?
There's a photo there, there, look, of the five of us.
We're going to dress five as kids.
Oh, don't you look lovely.
And you'll see, you'll see I got a hat on.
What?
That, and do you know why?
Because I used to get so fed up of people saying,
what beautiful hair she got, what beautiful hair she got.
And I would always have her head on the side.
Oh my God, isn't that lovely?
So lovely.
And your hair's all pretty much the same, but you're...
Yes, obviously she always wore a hat.
I said they used to call me copper top because I said it's nice to hear that everybody says,
oh, what beautiful hair, what beautiful hair.
Oh, I got bloody fed up with it.
I used to say, oh, I'm going to be a beauty queen.
I used to say, and I always used to wear a tan then.
Oh, lovely.
But I used to get fed up with it.
Do you see the difference in me now to Rose?
Yes.
You know, it's so many years.
Yeah.
She used to look after me when I was born because she put lead in Luxie.
Was your mum working?
Yes, my mum always worked.
What did she do?
Well, she only worked in later life, didn't she, when she went up the hospital?
No, she worked at the Box Works for years.
Did she?
Yes, my mum did.
I got a photo of her working at the Box Works.
Where's the Box Works?
At Potskiewicz.
Oh, really?
Don't ask me what they've done there.
I don't know.
It's called the Box Works.
I don't remember that.
My only time I remember, ma'am, is when she went to work up at the St Lawrence Hospital.
Oh, wow, that was later life.
And later, I know.
They were married and all that.
Divorced.
What are any other local characters you remember here?
Who was that?
We used to have big carnivals here years ago.
What is that?
Yeah.
Carnival, yeah.
I've got photos of that.
That's been my photograph.
Chrissie, Ivy's daughter was under once.
Oh, she was five years old.
I remember the carnival queen.
And her dad drove the lorry over onto a field over there.
That's right, yeah.
Yeah, big carnivals years ago, we used to have.
Yes, I got some photos in my other little box of photos, because we got Andrzej's now.
I got Chrissie on the cart, I don't know.
And I got them with the people marching up the street and one thing and another, but of course.
Yeah.
And you were part of the carnival?
Yes.
She was a character more than in one, she was.
She was good.
She used to do all sorts of things.
What sorts of things?
She was good, Mrs. Trinidad.
Was she Irish?
I don't think so.
Name like that.
I don't know.
I don't know where she came from.
But if you had any trouble.
Well, I suppose lots of communities would have had somebody like that, wouldn't they,
at one time?
Yeah.
And actually played an important role, didn't they, really?
You know?
Every finish would have a midwife.
Another one used to be, lived just down the road, what was her name?
I bet you'd tell her that she'd be out sweeping that bloody pavement and by her gate, if she'd
swept that pavement once during the day, she'd sweep under there and she'd be sweeping it
and sweeping it until somebody come along and once they did, whoop, really, talk, talk.
But she was always sweeping the pavement out the front.
Who was that?
Eh?
I can't think of her name now.
She had a son.
She did.
But she'd always be out there.
Where did she live then?
Just out next to one.
Oh.
That councillor, as I told you, what was it that come up and got me that house?
Where did Phyllis Andrews live?
Yeah, I know where Phyllis lived at the road, aye.
I know.
How does it, can you?
Well, next door, down on...
Mr Walker.
That Mr Walker was the councillor?
That Mr Walker was the one that come up and got me the house, aye.
Aye.
One of them two houses there, but she was always sweeping them out, even if one of yours
try and miss her.
Cantles lived on the corner.
Who?
Cantles.
Trevor Cantles.
Aye, that was earlier.
He was a kid, Trevor Cantles.
One of them went abroad, didn't they, to live, didn't they?
No, there was only Trevor Cantles.
Trevor?
Oh no, there was a daughter, wasn't there?
Yes, I think she went abroad to live.
Yeah.
How many people living here now, would you say, have been here for all their lives?
Are they very...
Not a lot.
Because there are nearly every houses that have been put up have been people have come
from down Wales way or somewhere, more often not down town, isn't it?
Yeah, from the valleys.
I would say a lot of people come here from the valleys when the council houses went up
to work at Lambwood.
Because I know we keep saying, oh Christ, when a lot of them, nobody knows.
I would say I got...
Nobody in the street.
I got neighbours now.
I never see, there's, they're rented, they're renting it.
But I never see them.
I don't even know their names.
That panel in the fence, they said, I'm waiting for the landlord to put a new panel in there.
And these two here, I never see them because they're both working and they're two kids
have come, grown up all while I've been here.
Really?
But I never see them.
You like them, don't you?
They don't get no bad.
The thing of this street now, you go all down this street and then cross over and come back up.
There's nobody here living here now than when we was kids.
Because they're all young people.
The only one here is John Michael, when he lived on the main road when we was kids.
But he lives in this street now.
And that big house.
Anybody else in this street, they didn't live here when we were children.
That's one thing I miss is my friend, she was living next door.
And we went everywhere together, holidays and all sorts of things.
And night time we'd be sat out under the trees down there with a cup of tea or something.
And good old Natter, she was as good as gold, she was.
Wasn't she awful, awesome.
I mean, she'd do everything.
And, but no, you don't see...
I don't see my neighbours.
You don't see anybody.
Everybody keeps theirself or they're out working and they just don't bother.
It's a bit of a shame, doesn't it? It feels a shame.
Did you ever go to church or chapel as children?
Oh yeah, we used to go to church and chapel.
Did you?
Yeah, we'd go to chapel one week and church the next week.
Whoever we were friends with.
And then we could go on the two outings to Barry.
Didn't we? Whoever we were friends with, we used to go Europe.
Yeah, well, it used to go different to me, you know.
When I was a kid, I used to go to chapel one week and church the other.
And then we could have, my minn, that was an outing to go to Barry.
On the train?
On the train. That was, you know, it was an organised, fish and chip dinner.
And two shillings in a packet to spend on the fare.
Oh, the thrill with those shillings.
Two shillings, you know.
That was a great thing to go to Barry Island.
Yeah, to go to Barry for the day, can't.
So we had two trips to Barry because we'd go into both places.
What about, did you ever have, I've spoken to people who've talked about
they used to go skating on the reams in the winter.
Did you ever have anything like that?
No.
Can't remember.
Going down the hill.
Not a big enough piece of, the only ponds we had,
and that wasn't big enough to, you know, not skate on it.
No, not the reams. I shouldn't have thought the reams were that wide, were they?
Eh?
The reams. You know.
What?
The reams. They weren't that wide, were they?
No, all the way down.
Only wide enough to put a stile over them.
We could jump over them, couldn't we?
Yeah, we used to jump over the reams.
Did you?
What, with a pole?
No, just run and jump over the reams.
Really?
And your foot went in, your foot went in.
Did you ever fall in?
I can't remember.
Probably had some wet feet I spent.
Did you ever, did you ever, you make boats for the reams?
No.
That's a...
Shall I turn this off now?
Shall I?
Shall I turn it off?
That is absolutely fantastic.
Oh my goodness.